<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI: A Question of Science</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Question of Science</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Not that I’m displeased at this visit, Pat,” rumbled the Doctor, seating himself in one of the great chairs by the fireplace, “but I’m curious. I thought you were dating your ideal tonight, yet here you are, back alone a little after eleven. How come?”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said the girl nonchalantly, dropping crosswise in the other chair, “we decided we needed our beauty sleep.”</p>
			<p>“Then why are you here, you young imp?”</p>
			<p>“Thought you might be lonesome.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll bet you did! But seriously, Pat, what is it? Any trouble?”</p>
			<p>“No-o,” she said dubiously. “No trouble. I just wanted to ask you a few hypothetical questions. About science.”</p>
			<p>“Go to it, then, and quickly. I was ready to turn in.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Pat, “about Nick’s father. He was a doctor, you said, and supposed to be cracked. Was he really?”</p>
			<p>“Humph! That’s curious. I just looked up a brochure of his tonight in the American Medical Journal, after our conversation of this afternoon. Why do you ask that?”</p>
			<p>“Because I’m interested, of course.”</p>
			<p>“Well, here’s what I remember about him, Pat. He was an M.D., all right, but I see by his paper there⁠—the one I was reading⁠—that he was on the staff of Northern U. He did some work at the Cook County Asylum, some research work, and there was a bit of talk about his maltreating the patients. Then, on top of that, he published a paper that medical men considered crazy, and that started talk of his sanity. That’s all I know.”</p>
			<p>“Then Nick⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I thought so! So it’s come to the point where you’re investigating his antecedents, eh? With an eye to marriage, or what?”</p>
			<p>“Or what!” snapped Pat. “I was curious to know, naturally.”</p>
			<p>“Naturally.” The Doctor gave her a keen glance from his shrewd eyes. “Did you think you detected incipient dementia in your ideal?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said the girl thoughtfully. “<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl, is there any sort of craziness that could take an ordinarily shy person and make a passionate devil of him? I don’t mean passionate, either,” she added. “Rather cold, ruthless, domineering.”</p>
			<p>“None that I know of,” said Horker, watching her closely. “Did this Nick of yours have one of his masterful moments?”</p>
			<p>“Worse than that,” admitted Pat reluctantly. “We had a near accident, and it startled both of us, and then suddenly, he was looking at me like a devil, and then⁠—” She paused. “It frightened me a little.”</p>
			<p>“What’d he do?” demanded Horker sharply.</p>
			<p>“Nothing.” She lied with no hesitation.</p>
			<p>“Were there any signs of Satyromania?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. I never heard of that.”</p>
			<p>“I mean, in plain Americanese, did he make a pass at you?”</p>
			<p>“He⁠—no, he didn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what <em>did</em> he do?”</p>
			<p>“He just looked at me.” Somehow a feeling of disloyalty was rising in her; she felt a reluctance to betray Nick further.</p>
			<p>“What did he say, then? And don’t lie this time.”</p>
			<p>“He just said⁠—He just looked at my legs and said something about their being beautiful, and that was all. After that, the look on his face faded into the old Nick.”</p>
			<p>“Old Nick is right⁠—the impudent scoundrel!” Horker’s voice rumbled angrily.</p>
			<p>“Well, they’re nice legs,” said Pat defiantly, swinging them as evidence. “You’ve said it yourself. Why shouldn’t <em>he</em> say it? What’s to keep him from it?”</p>
			<p>“The code of a gentleman, for one thing!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, who cares for your Victorian codes! Anyway, I came here for information, not to be cross-examined. I want to ask the questions myself.”</p>
			<p>“Pat, you’re a reckless little spitfire, and you’re going to get burned some day, and deserve it,” the Doctor rumbled ominously. “Ask your fool questions, and then I’ll ask mine.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said the girl, still defiant. “I don’t guarantee to answer yours, however.”</p>
			<p>“Well, ask yours, you imp!”</p>
			<p>“First, then⁠—is that Satyro-stuff you mentioned intermittent or continuous?”</p>
			<p>“It’s necessarily intermittent, you numb-skull! The male organism can’t function continuously!”</p>
			<p>“I mean, does the mania lie dormant for weeks or months, and then flare up?”</p>
			<p>“Not at all. It’s a permanent mania, like any other psychopathic sex condition.”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said Pat thoughtfully, with a sense of relief.</p>
			<p>“Well, go on. What next?”</p>
			<p>“What are these dual personalities you read about in the papers?”</p>
			<p>“They’re aphasias. An individual forgets his name, and he picks, or is given, another, if he happens to wander among strangers. He forgets much of his past experience; the second personality is merely what’s left of the first⁠—sort of a vestige of his normal character. There isn’t any such thing as a dual personality in the sense of two distinct characters living in one body.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t there?” queried the girl musingly. “Could the second personality have qualities that the first one lacked?”</p>
			<p>“Not any more than it could have an extra finger! The second is merely a split off the first, a forgetfulness, a loss of memory. It couldn’t have <em>more</em> qualities than the whole, or normal, character; it <em>must</em> have fewer.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t that just too interesting!” said Pat in a bantering tone. “All right, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl. It’s your turn.”</p>
			<p>“Then what’s the reason for all this curiosity about perversions and aphasias? What’s happened to your genius now?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m thinking of taking up the study of psychiatry,” replied the girl cheerfully.</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you going to answer me seriously?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Then what’s the use of my asking questions?”</p>
			<p>“I know the right answer to that one. None!”</p>
			<p>“Pat,” said Horker in a low voice, “you’re an impudent little hoyden, and too clever for your own good, but you and your mother are very precious to me. You know that.”</p>
			<p>“Of course I do, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl,” said the girl, relenting. “You’re a dear, and I’m crazy about you, and you know that, too.”</p>
			<p>“What I’m trying to say,” proceeded the other, “is simply that I’m trying to help you. I want to help you, if you need help. Do you?”</p>
			<p>“I guess I don’t, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl, but you’re sweet.”</p>
			<p>“Are you in love with this Nicholas Devine?”</p>
			<p>“I think perhaps I am,” she admitted softly.</p>
			<p>“And is he in love with you?”</p>
			<p>“Frankly, could he help being?”</p>
			<p>“Then there’s something about him that worries you. That’s it, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“I thought there was, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl. I was a little startled by the change in him right after we had that narrow escape, but I’m sure it was nothing⁠—just imagination. Honestly, that’s all that troubled me.”</p>
			<p>“I believe you, Pat,” said the Doctor, his eyes fixed on hers. “But guard yourself, my dear. Be sure he’s what you think he is; be sure you know him rightly.”</p>
			<p>“He’s clean and fine,” murmured the girl. “I <em>am</em> sure.”</p>
			<p>“But this puzzling yourself about his character, Pat⁠—I don’t like it. Make doubly sure before you permit your feelings to become too deeply involved. That’s only common sense, child, not psychiatry or magic.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure,” repeated Pat. “I’m not puzzled or troubled any more. And thanks, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl. You run along to bed and I’ll do likewise.”</p>
			<p>He rose, accompanying her to the door, his face unusually grave.</p>
			<p>“Patricia,” he said, “I want you to think over what I’ve said. Be sure, be doubly sure, before you expose yourself to the possibility of suffering. Remember that, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll try to. Don’t fret yourself about it, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl; I’m a hard-boiled young modern, and it takes a diamond to even scratch me.”</p>
			<p>“I hope so,” he said soberly. “Run along; I’ll watch until you’re inside.”</p>
			<p>Pat darted across the strip of grass, turned at her door to blow a goodnight kiss to the Doctor, and slipped in. She tiptoed quietly to her room, slipped off her dress, and surveyed her long, slim legs in the mirror.</p>
			<p>“Why shouldn’t he say they were beautiful?” she queried of the image. “I can’t see any reason to get excited over a simple compliment like that.”</p>
			<p>She made a face over her shoulder at the green Buddha above the fireplace.</p>
			<p>“And as for you, fat boy,” she murmured, “I expect to see you wink at me tonight. And every night hereafter!”</p>
			<p>She prepared herself for slumber, slipped into the great bed. She had hardly closed her lids before the image of a leering face with terrible bloody eyes flamed out of memory and set her trembling and shuddering.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
