<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 19: Man or Monster?</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIX</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Man or Monster?</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Pat suffered Wednesday through somehow, knowing that any such early response to her letter was impossible. Still, that impossibility did not deter her from starting at the sound of the telephone, and sorting through the mail with an eagerness that drew a casual attention from her mother.</p>
			<p>“Good Heavens, Patricia! You’re like a child watching for an answer to his note to Santa Claus!”</p>
			<p>“That’s what I am, I guess,” responded the girl ruefully. “Maybe I expect too much from Santa Claus.”</p>
			<p>Late in the afternoon she drifted over to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Horker’s residence, to be informed that he was out. For distraction, she went in anyway, and spent a while browsing among the books in the library. She blundered into Kraft-Ebing, and read a few pages in growing indignation.</p>
			<p>“I’m ashamed to be human!” she muttered disgustedly to herself, slamming shut the <i epub:type="se.name.publication.journal">Psychopathia Sexualis</i>. “I wouldn’t be a doctor, or have a child of mine become one, if I were positively certain he’d turn into Lord Lister himself! Nick was right when he said doctors live on people’s troubles.”</p>
			<p>She wondered how <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Horker could remain so human, so kindly and understanding, when as he said himself his world was a parade of misfits, incompetents, and all the nastiness of mortals. <em>He</em> was nice; she felt no embarrassment in confiding in him even when she might hesitate to bare her feelings to her own mother. Or was it simply the natural thing to do to tell one’s troubles to a doctor?</p>
			<p>Not, of course, that the situation reflected any discredit on her mother. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Lane was a very precious sort of parent, she mused, young as Pat in spirit, appreciative and enthusiastically fond of her daughter. That she trusted Pat, that she permitted her to do entirely as she pleased, was exactly as the girl would have it; it argued no lack of affection that each of them had their separate interests, and if the girl occasionally found herself in unpleasantness such as this, that too was her own fault.</p>
			<p>And yet, she reflected, it was a bitter thing to have no one to whom to turn. If it weren’t for <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl and his jovial willingness to commit any sin up to malpractice to help her, she might have felt differently. But there always <em>was</em> <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl, and that, she concluded, was that.</p>
			<p>She wandered back to her own side of the hedge, missing for the first time in many weeks the companionship of the old crowd. There hadn’t been many idle afternoons heretofore during the summer; there’d always been some of the collegiate vacationing in town, and Pat had never needed other lure than her own piquant vivacity to assure herself of ample attention. Now, of course, it was different; she had so definitely tagged herself with the same Nicholas Devine that even the most ardent of the group had taken the warning.</p>
			<p>“And I don’t regret it either!” she told herself as she entered the house. “Trouble, mystery, suffering and all⁠—I don’t regret it! I’ve had my compensations too.”</p>
			<p>She sighed and trudged upstairs to prepare for dinner.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Morning found Pat in a fair frenzy of trepidation. She kept repeating to herself that two days wasn’t enough, that more time might be required, that even had Nicholas Devine received her letter, he might not have answered at once. Yet she was quivering as she darted into the hall to examine the mail.</p>
			<p>It was there! She spied a fragment of the irregular handwriting and seized the envelope from beneath a clutter of notes, bills, and advertisements. She glanced at the postmark. Chicago! He hadn’t left the city, trusting perhaps to the anonymity conferred by its colossal swarm of humanity. Indeed, she thought as she stared at the missive, he might have moved around the corner, and save for the chance of a fortuitous meeting she’d never know it.</p>
			<p>She tore open the envelope and scanned the several scrawled lines.</p>
			<p>No heading, no salutation, not even a signature. Just, “Thursday evening at our place in the park.” No more; she studied the few words intently, as if she could read into their bald phrasing the moods and hidden emotions of the writer.</p>
			<p>A single phrase, but sufficient. The day was suddenly brighter, and the hope which had glowed so dimly yesterday was abruptly almost more than a hope⁠—a certainty. All her doubts of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Horker’s abilities were forgotten; already the solution of this uncanny mystery seemed assured, and the restoration of romance imminent. She carried the letter to her own room and tucked it carefully by the other in the drawer of the night-table.</p>
			<p>Thursday evening⁠—this evening! Many hours intervened between now and a reasonable time for the meeting, but they loomed no longer drab, dull, and hopeless. She lay on her bed and dreamed.</p>
			<p>She could meet Nick as early as possible; perhaps at eight-thirty, and bring him directly to the Doctor’s residence. No use wasting a moment, she mused; the sooner some light could be thrown on the affliction, the sooner they could lay the devil⁠—exorcise it. Demon, fixed idea, mental aberration, or whatever <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl chose to call it, it had to be met and vanquished once and forever. And it <em>could</em> be vanquished; in her present mood she didn’t doubt it. Then⁠—after that⁠—there was the prospect of her own Nick regained, and the sweet vistas opened by that reflection.</p>
			<p>She lunched in an abstracted manner. In the afternoon, when the phone rang, she jumped in a startled manner, then relaxed with a shrug.</p>
			<p>But this time it <em>was</em> for her. She darted into the hall to take the call on the lower phone; she was hardly surprised but thoroughly excited to recognize the voice of Nicholas Devine.</p>
			<p>“Pat?”</p>
			<p>“Nick! Oh, Nick, Honey! What is it?”</p>
			<p>“My note to you.” Even across the wire she sensed the strain in his tense tones. “You’ve read it?”</p>
			<p>“Of course, Nick! I’ll be there.”</p>
			<p>“No.” His voice was trembling. “You won’t come, Pat. Promise you won’t!”</p>
			<p>“But why? Why not, Nick? Oh, it’s terribly important that I see you!”</p>
			<p>“You’re not to come, Pat!”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—” An idea was struggling to her consciousness. “Nick, was it⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. You know now.”</p>
			<p>“But, Honey, what difference does it make? <em>You</em> come. You must, Nick!”</p>
			<p>“I won’t meet you, I tell you!” She could hear his voice rising excitedly in pitch, she could feel the intensity of the struggle across unknown miles of lifeless copper wire.</p>
			<p>“Nick,” she said, “I’m going to be there, and you’re going to meet me.”</p>
			<p>There was silence at the other end.</p>
			<p>“Nick!” she cried anxiously. “Do you hear me? I’ll be there. Will you?”</p>
			<p>His voice sounded again, now flat and toneless.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said. “I’ll be there.”</p>
			<p>The receiver clicked at the far end of the wire; there was only a futile buzzing in Pat’s ears. She replaced the instrument and sat staring dubiously at it.</p>
			<p>Had that been Nick, really her Nick, or⁠—? Suppose she went to that meeting and found⁠—the other? Was she willing to face another evening of indignities and terrors like those still fresh in her memory?</p>
			<p>Still, she argued, what harm could come to her on that bench, exposed as it was to the gaze of thousands who wandered through the park on summer evenings? Suppose it <em>were</em> the other who met her; there was no way to force her into a situation such as that of Saturday night. Nick himself had chosen that very spot for their other meeting, and for that very reason.</p>
			<p>“There’s no risk in it,” she told herself, “Nothing can possibly happen. I’ll simply go there and bring Nick back to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carl’s, along a lighted, busy street, the whole two blocks. What’s there to be afraid of?”</p>
			<p>Nothing at all, she answered herself. But suppose⁠—She shuddered and deliberately abandoned her chain of thought as she rose and rejoined her mother.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
